## Wer April 29

Interestingly enough the Data.Graph topological sort can sort even DAGs which is by definition not possible. It seems that is due to the fact that it does the sorting on a forest which is by definition undirected.
My recursive implementation resulted in an infinite recursion when confronted with a cyclic directed graph. Changing the implementation to just skip visited notes results in an ordering, but it shouldn't be. That corresponds to skipping an edge which is actually not what I want here. Using Maybe doesn't seem to make the code more readable. Bleh :-(
Moving on to minimum spanning trees I got stuck rewiring my implementation to accept a weight for my edge.

## Tue April 28

Caught a cold over the weekend so couldn't hack. Interesting findings I've made: I've compared my implementation with the one in Data.Graph. Even tho mine is far inferior, I now understand Data.Graph wayyy better. I also realise where the data types come into play. For one it's good documentation. The dfs implementation in Data.Graph returns a forest of vertices which is an undirected graph of trees. working with this type as a result is far more elegant than lists. Furthermore it seems straight forward with the immutable data types.

## Thu April 23

Darn week almost over again. No coursera today but hacking on my uvmeter parsec parser. Got it parsing with some help from an online article. Need to hook it up tomorrow and let it go for a spin.
Only missing thing: not using a parser combinator. Heck no idea wtf it actually is.

## Wed April 22

Started with parsec to replace the conduit library in my uvmeter patch. Nothing to report there.
On the coursera front I think I figured why I had trouble with the cycles. The course and slides kind of skip through the ordering and I thought topological sort is all. But turns out you get to it via creating first a postorder.

## Tue April 21

Implemented strongly connected components. Took a stab by re-using my code I implemented for topological sort order, which is in the second stage almost the same. Exception is to create a map for the look up. It worked with my graph which had no cycles, but failed with sunils. I'm a bit puzzled, since even the example in the lecture seem to have cycles. Looks like I'll have to figure out first what it means to have or not have cycles. Seemed to be straight forward to me, but it seems now it isn't.

## Mon April 20 (2)

I've got it! I've got it!!!! Got him by the balls. Yess. My mistake was to always concatenate the result list of the first search branch to the rest of the search (the search of the other branches). That concatenated the end result on to the result I had previously resulting in an infinite loop. Instead I should have _just_ used the darn result of the first recursive call in the call of the rest of the list. _Dang!_

## Mon April 20

I think I have to start over again. I'm carrying 4 lists around. Haven't had much time to debug what is going wrong. This is driving me crazy.

## sund April 19

Figured today that my implemented "solution" was all wrong. Used a bigger directed graph and nothing was ok.
I've tinkered more and realized that i needed a stack in order to tie up the remaining dfs nodes I run over with. That's what the learning material was talking about all the time. Brr. His did I miss this obvious thing?
Now it's working for one branch. I hope I can find the missing piece to make it work over the while graph.

## sat April 18

Today i continued with my topological sorting. I can't believe that i spent the last the days brainlessly making the same mistakes iterating over one recursive function which should be two.
I broke the problem down to parts: get the last result of a dfs, the the whole branch, now applied consecutively. Last step is to hook it up so that I run it over all vertices.
I've made the same mistake when implementing connected components: too much at the same time. The tricky thing is thinking recursively while also thinking about how to update your immutable data structures. In imperative languages you can mutate wherever you want.
