## Fri May 29

Hit a wall when I looked at another implementation which used hoopl here: http://nochair.net/posts/2013/02-20-a-hoopl-experience.html It might sound worse than it actually is tho. I'm close, but my implementation is basically wrong. What gets me though, that I'm still not clear where I go with these labels from hoopl. Sure the control flow graph is being created with the use of labels, but am can I use the CFG and see not the labels, but the source code identifiers?
Almost think about going back to the coursera course, to learn more haskell, before continuing. There is a lot of stuff I theoretically understand, but practice is wonky. I can't apply it correctly.

## Fri May 22

Thought more over it over night and came to the conclusion that my approach of converting a language last to an IR will not produce a control flow graph I can use for slicing and return a path to be visualised in my editor unless I operate on exactly the same AST.
I think it also finally clicked how to use function composition (.). The function you compose takes a function instead of a value. Then you can compose it.

## Thur May 21

I've put more work into studying hoopl for my programslice. I'm lost. Not sure if I should go through an IR or use hoopl directly with the IR. It seems it's all due my ignorance. I put using IR aside and see how using hoopl with the python ast will work out.

## Tue May 12

Want to try the converter out and can't get the damn thing to run. I thought I know how to get a computation out of a monad, but it doesn't seem to work if I'm in another monad (IO that is). Will have to read more on it.

## Sun May 10

Worked more on the AST to IR converter. Didn't get much done. Have to be careful to keep the "smallest" item for the graph to be the function. That means I can ignore a few statements and expressions.

## Sat May 9

Working on programslice. Halfway through the converter to an intermediate representation. Good thing: I understand to 90% what's going on from the hoopl example. The monadic code is a bit of a grey area. Bad thing: the language annotation (column, line numbers) which is needed for a slice result is gone. Currently not anticipated. So I'll have to find a solution to keep that somewhere. Not sure if with a growing number of languages the IR is not turning out to be a PITA. let's see...

## Tue May 5

I've got the arbitrary instances fixed so that they compile. The property test I've implemented also runs in the module I've moved it in. Great!!! The only problem is, that I expected the test to fail since it's utter garbage I have it testing there :{ Something I need to figure out what's wrong tomorrow.
Things to note: Implement the arbitrary instances for each atomic part of the program (e.g. I needed arbitrary instances for my Edges first before I write and test the graph).

## Tue May 5

Having another go at the Arbitrary implementation for Graph and Edges. I'm going nowhere. With the Edge which now is an actual data type, I can't understand how I can construct an "arbitrary" Edge for the vertices and the weight. So how do I provide two different types to create my Edge?
Graph is another beast, but slightly different. First blocker was the fact that it is just a type alias. No, I'm not implementing another Hashmap. With language pragmas I got further, but now I don't know how to code around my generic data types I'm using for the instance header. Maybe I should just stick with concrete types for the moment?

## Sat May 2

I'm in the process of changing the graph to be a weighted graph. After the first hurdle it was actually surprisingly easy and straight forward to deal with the fact that I'm now storing complete edges with a weight instead of just a list (neighbours). So that's were data types are becoming helpful: encapsulation.
The tests needed more work, but nothing bad. Found that cabal has a way to execute a test suite. Nice.
