## Tue Jun 30

I've made a bigger jump yay!! I'm now almost 100% sure that I've made a mistake with the graph construction in the monadic code. It converted every source line into a separate graph with entry, middle and exit. I've fixed that. Now I can see that my support of a limited amount of statements obviously results in very boring graphs since no conditions or jumps are supported.
What's more - I've got the pretty printing right. That based on my smaller change before storing the actual AST nodes. With that I can pretty print the source code (unfortunately still indentation and line numbers missing). Maybe I could take a stab at visualising the graph now!!! w00000w \o/

## Fri jun 26

Made small progress. I stabbed around in the generated graph with the fixtures I created. it seems that there is really nothing much to it if you don't have branches or conditions. Because currently I only have entry, flow through and exit.
Based on that assumption, I try again to visualise the graph with a state monad in which I keep track of the numbers I used peer label/block.
The is more tho, since the visualised graph wouldn't show any source code + pretty printing the code is another story.

## Fri Jun 19

After some euphoria and progress with Graphviz the wall again.
Transforming the hoopl graph into a graph I could use with Graphviz
raised a few questions: one of them: how to I get the edges out? The
graph feels really unwieldy... maybe I'm missing something. The fact
that I'm tired does not really help.

## Mon Jun 15

I've made some progress yay. I've re-factored my code and use a state
transformer monad instead of what hoopl provides. That cleaned up some
code and made it way more understandable. That allowed me to continue
with the visualisation code.
Unfortunately it produces no graph, only an empty white PNG :-{
If I wouldn't be too sleepy, I'd be checking out what the heck is wrong,
but not today.

## Fri Jun 12

Arg.. just hitting a block again. My initial idea of painting the graph
turned out to be the wall. I thought I could just take the labels
indicating each block and ... well create the graph. But how do I know
the association? So I haven't thought that far. All I get so far is a
flat list of labels when I print the graph. That is not sufficient. One
benefit though, I've got a better understanding about how the graph
composes itself, so it's easier to attach a meaning to what is describe
in the paper. yay.
Ok, one step further: dodged the problem when thinking about it. The
information comes obviously from the types. A type of Block n O O means
it's open on entry and on exit: control flow flows through. That means
it would be a pretty linear reference from one block to the next. So I
could paint the graph. Here comes the but: the map I use for creating
labels stores a mapping between source code and label. So much for
looking up the source code given the label :(
So.. next: I need another map storing the opposite.

## Thu Jun 11

Sick the last couple of days. Made just a tiny fraction of progress,
almost not worth to mention. I'm currently stuck mapping over my graph.
I've found some sample code to study and I'm also studying example code
from llvm-analsys. Great module.

## Fri June 5

I've made some progress finally. I felt a bit demotivated after last sessions didn't go anywhere.
The labels are simply used to identify blocks. The annotated code fragments are kept in the map. That's great.
Now I need a better way of labeling my blocks.
I've found another hoopl implementation in a package called: llvm-analysis. What's more it also provides code to visualise the graph. I've played around with the Data.Graphviz package yesterday. I'm pushing forward with this. If I can visualise the graph I'm constructing, I'll have the first module which can show a CFG for python programmes. Furthermore I can actually see what my code is doing. So I can feel my motivation creeping back in.
Furthermore I've figured out that I need a control dependency graph for my programme as a starting point for slicing. How to obtain that? Well it looks that I can construct a CFG from a CDG.
One other idea: it seems that I might be able to construct a CFG by just looking at the indentation (apart from loops and stuff). I should check this out.
