## Sat 25 July

progress: I'm now constructing one CFG per module, not per function. That allowed me to remove quite a bit of stupid code. Using 'stack' more instead of cabal. something is odd with my dependencies: the tests can't find HUnit sometimes. Found "tasty" as a framework for writing test. Will be trying that. The tests are currently becoming a bigger problem for verification of the program. After that we go for new instructions.

## Fri Jul 17

Ok I've done it again: coding without brain. Zombie coding. Why am I not thinking about how to get the darn graph into a graphviz compatible graph. Here is an idea: I convert the graph to an inductive graph. That's something Graphviz can already deal with. Still need to figure out how to number the darn nodes, but well... maybe I should use my brain. Brr.

## Mon Jul 13

Again impasse... Just mucking through the graph doesn't work. Extracting the nodes and then fiddling a graph together is shit. I need to better understand what I'm doing. My example perhaps is too simple. The control flow just flows through in the example. No jumps, no nothing. Debugging the example also revealed no entry and no exit. That is odd...
Perhaps I should write a better test for this or look into coming up with a better example perhaps with a condition.

## Fri Jul 10

Worked more on the visualisation. I first had a plan to create new edges by traversing the graph using the state monad. Then I realised, I could already use the created nodes as such instead of fiddling with the integers. Create a list of nodes and then number them. Today I went back to the state monad implementation which assigns numbers while traversing the graph. It doesn't work as planned. Then creating the edges during traversing is a night mare. Esp. with BMiddle where I have no clue about which node could form an edge, since I have no edge throw a spanner in the works. Perhaps creating the flat list first with simply references is the better approach. I revisit that tomorrow again.

## Tue Jul 7

Worked on the visualisation again. Hit a dead end with not being able to decide how I correctly deconstruct the blocks and what to do with the Normal constructors. There are no labels ... should I re-use last integers again? Perhaps ... I need to think about it.
