## Sat Sep 26

Working on the Applicative function `replicateA` brought back memories. I tried to use `replicate` out of the Prelude but couldn't get it to work. I doubted the ability to use the function at all, since it used general quantified types `a` and not functors `f a`. But turns out it can be used. And of course. If it would have not been the case it would have almost rendered the functional programming language unusable if you need to implement almost the same function for different types.

## Tue Sep 21

Got a bit further with the help of folks on [#bfpg](https://github.com/bfpg). I've a const function which applied to two functors returns the second: `fconst _ x = x`. Applied this to the first functor and mapped over the second functor: `(*>) f g = fconst f <$> g` I get the first result. The tricky thing is that it doesn't map over the entire first functor which it should be: `(*>) :: Apply f => f a -> f b -> f b`

**Update**: Yay!!! Found the solution. The type of my applied `fconst` function was: `t -> f b -> f b` so I thought, I need something which uses the given `f a` (btw. in ghci type: ghci> `:type \f g -> fconst f <$> b` to check the type). Anyway.. scrolling up I recognized the type signatures of the `lift` functions. They take a function and create functors out of the parameters. So having a function `fconst` I thought why not:

    (*>) f g = lift2 fconst f g
        where fconst _ x = x

and boom it worked! A nicer way however is to turn it into:

    (*>) f g = lift2 (flip const) f g

and I can save the helper function.

## Mon Sep 21

Made some great progress on the course. Got stuck now and then but help
from Fraser Tweedale to get back on the moving tracks. Now I'm stuck
again, although I feel the solution to be really simple.
I'm implementing Apply for a sequence, discaring the value of the first
argument, basically `*>`.
So the function takes two Functors (`f a` and an `f b`). It returns the
values of the second functor applied to the first, discarding the values
of the first. Just doing `(*>) _ g = id g` produces the first mapping -
Hurry. Now I need to map over the given (first) Functor `f` to produce a
sequence of values from the functor b. Hmm...

## Mon Sep 14

Started with the NICTA course. **I wonder if you know before you learn something new how much theory you should learn before you apply it?**

## Sat Sep 12

One other item to find out is a functor instance of each AST type. Wouldn't that mean I should be able to traverse the tree? I never tried the [NICTA](https://github.com/NICTA/course). Maybe I should.

## Fri Sep 11

Turns out the idea doesn't work as expected. Grouping will obviously
only work on the columns of the first leafs of the AST. I would
need to define a recursive function to recurse of the AST branch. Doing
that I would need pattern matching, which means I could just group
manually.
**Update:** My expectations were slightly off about the basic blocks, however one additional problem with this approach is that leafs of the AST are encapsulated in their regarding data types. I'll won't get around using pattern matching. Doing that tho, returning a basic list of statements won't work either. Since for a conditional for example, I don't only need the statements inside the condition, but also the expressions of the actual if statement. Expressions are different type to statements so that won't work. Which means creating new datatypes of my basic blocks. Doing that well... I could just use my types in hoopl.
That means, I'll need to go back to the drawing board on how I can create my datatype and make sure there is an edge between the basic blocks of the condition...
One problem was, that during instantiation of my conditional type I have not had all the necessary information at hand. I need to re-visit this problem.

## Mon Sep 7

Idea: in order to cut up the source code into block I try to get a list of basic block by looking at the indentation. That will still need some further mangling but it sounds promising.

## Sat Sep 5

wow due to sickness and new project haven't done anything on my project.
I've added condition and now facing the problem of splitting up sequences of statements correctly up into blocks. I always wonder if I could do it simply based on the indentation level.
I'll start of with a quick Monad homework to pattern match and correctly bind sequences of values in order to end up with the right set of labels for each instruction. The condition is tricky, since I need a label at the start and a new one at the next normal instruction _and_ then I need an edge between the two.
